So, there is a repo here that I'm
going to need you to go clone.
It's called SQL apps.
And I'm going to give you just
a little tour quickly of it.
There are two different
parts of the projects.
We're just doing the ingredients now,
then we'll do a little bit more, and
then we'll do the recipes one later.
But for now, you can just
worry about ingredients, okay?
Click on that,
there's a couple flat files in here.
There's an index.html that
basically sets up a bunch of stuff.
There is a client side JS,
you don't have to touch this one at all.
I did all of the client side work for you.
But basically, it's just adding and
removing event listeners.
And it's setting up some
like nice kind of carousels.
Everything that you are going to write for
this particular exercise
is just an api.js.
This is all using Express, I just did it
because that was the simplest thing and
I imagine that's one you had,
there's a highest probability
that you're familiar with.
There's this part here where it
says student code starts here.
And then there's a part where
it says student code ends here.
So everything you have to modify
is between these two comments.
And I kind of left you comments of
what I expect you to do here to make
everything work.
And then you'll have to delete
these res.status(501) things,
because 501 means it's not implemented.
You are going to have to
turn these into 200's.
Basically, you are going to have to write
a part where you connect the Postgres,
you are going to have write a part where
you return all ingredients of a type, and
the type here is coming in from the query.
And then you're gonna have to write a part
where you do a search on some sort of term
and some sort of page, right?
So, you can return five rows at
a time of page one, page zero,
page two, page three, so
on and so forth, okay?
So let me just show you a little
bit how to get started here.
Open a new tab here, okay,
I'm gonna open this in code.
So, I've already cloned
this repo from GitHub.
And, I'm gonna open API JS
from ingredients, so
the same thing that you
should be seeing here.
Right there api.js, okay?
This is all the code
that you're gonna write.
There is, if you get lost or
you want to see how I did it.
I have the completed projects
inside of the completed folder, so
you can look here inside of
ingredients there's another api.js.
That is the code that I wrote that and
everything worked.
Works as long as your database is
working right and it has data in it.
There's no cheating on this.
This is just a project,
whatever you need to do to learn.
Do that.
If you want to look immediately at
the code and that's you feel like that's
the best way you're going to learn.
Then do that, I don't care.
I care that you learn.
In my opinion, the best way to learn,
the way that I learn,
is I take a crack at it and
I hit the wall and I struggle, and
I learn a bunch of things and
then I go look at the solution.
But if that's not how it's gonna work for
you,
it's better than getting discouraged,
right?
If you're gonna get discouraged,
then just look at the answer.
Okay?
So if you're not familiar,
the first thing to do when you clone this,
you're gonna say npm install.
Just like that.
It'll go install a few packages.
Express, you don't even need
the image-downloader but it's there.
pg, and then nodemon and prettier.
Okay, and
then you're just going to run npm run dev.
Okay, this is going to run like
a little watcher in the background.
So every time that you save a file,
it'll restart the server for you, so
you don't have to do that yourself.
And then you can just open
this in localhost 3000.
You should get a site
that looks like this.
Okay, you should click on Ingredients
it should be relatively empty, right?
Because none of it is working.
But if you click on Answers,
you should see something,
this is your end goal of what you
want it to make it look like.
This is what it will look like once
you have all of the things populating.
So, this is populating all the fruits,
this is populating all the vegetables.
You can see that they have little tags on
them that identify what types they are.
Okay, it's pulling all the images
correctly from the images.
Notice that if this one,
I don't have very many
meat things in here so
it loops back around.
And there's a lot of other ones,
other ones.
No, we don't have that yet, which is fine.
Okay, and then down here you
have all the search ingredients.
This will go through all of them.
And then you can search for
things like berry.
And you'll get all of the berries.
And then you can ignore recipes,
we're gonna do recipes in
the next project not this one.
Some additional troubleshooting tips for
people that are having issues
just getting anything to work.
The first one that one of the students
did was they connected, they did all
their operations in the Postgres database
and not the recipeguru database.
Which would be problematic because all of
your data would be in the wrong database.
And we were trying to query from
something that didn't work.
The way you can kind of
diagnose that happen.
If you go to your terminal, and
here it should say recipeguru here,
where you've been doing
all of your querying.
And if I do \d where it says, recipeguru,
you can see I have my ingredients table.
If it says postgres right here,
you're in the wrong database.
So, the way you connect to different
database, \c recipeguru, right?
Now, if you hit dash d, if you do not see
this ingredients then you have to go and
get the, recreate everything here.
Or for the sake of just this
exercise you can replace
where it says recipeguru
right here in database.
And you can just put postgres there,
and that'll connect you to that database,
right?
Either one of those will work.
If you're this far and you've made
all the tables and stuff like that,
I probably would just go and
replace this with postgres, it's fine.
That would work.
Another thing that I saw another student
do is the port was blocked either from
running a previous version of Postgres or
maybe you have some sort of
corporate firewall that's not
allowing you to host local ports.
The way that you can tell if the ports
are messed up, if you go to local host,
5432, which is the default port
that postgres is running on,
the one that we have it running on.
It should say, connection was reset or
error empty response.
Chrome will say empty response, do I
have Chrome up here that I can show you?
Yeah, localhost didn't send any data,
error, empty response.
This is oppose to if you see,
if you see this, this is correct.
This is what it should show.
If you see something like this where
it says the site can't be reached and
localhost refused to connect.
That means that that port is not open,
it's not exposed, right?
Which means that you need to go figure out
there's something amiss with your ports.
The way that you might diagnose or
fix that is maybe you didn't
open the port and docker.
Or you might have a corporate policy
on your computer that doesn't work.
Or you might have to shutdown a different
version of Postgres that might be
running in the background.
Those are all possible reasons.
Then again,
what that looks like in Firefox here,
it will say unable to connect.
This says that then you
have a port problem.
If it says connection was reset,
that means it's working, it's fine,
everything's working
like you think it should.